# OWASP Cloud Security

The OWASP Cloud Security project aims to help people secure their products and services running in the cloud by providing a set of easy to use threat model templates and security control BDD stories that pool together the expertise and experience of the development, operations, and security communities.

The OWASP Project page: https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Cloud_Security_Project

# Contributing

Please contribute!

This project is here to pool together the experience and expertise of people just like you, so that others can build better and more secure products and services in the cloud. Your contributions are essential.

If you would like to help out with the project, please let the project leader know by tweeting [@OWASP_CloudSec](https://twitter.com/owasp_cloudsec) or sending an email to fraser@0x10.co.

You can also check out the [GitHub issues](https://github.com/owasp-cloud-security/owasp-cloud-security/issues) page which lists all different tasks that need to be worked on.

To contribute a change:

1. For the repository on Github
2. Clone your fork to your local machine
3. Commit your changes to your own branch
4. Push your changes back to your fork
5. Submit a pull request to merge your changes into this repository

# Project structure

## Directory structure

The root of this repository contains Cloud providers (e.g. aws). Within each directory you will find provider-specific services (e.g. ec2 for aws).

Each service directory contains the following files and directories:

* README.md - Generated by concatinating the below two files (plus using ocst2md.py - see below)
* threatmodel.md - Threat model overview and scope information
* platform\_service\_threats.yaml - Data file containing threats (process to markdown using ocst2md.py)
* features - Directory containing .feature BDD mitigation/control stories
* tools - Proof-of-concept attack scripts and tools

## Threat model yaml files

The threat model structures are loosely based off the advice in https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/adioltean/2005/01/17/ten-tips-how-to-write-a-well-structured-threat-model-document/

Threats are stored in YAML files:

    threats:
      - id: <OCST id>
        name: <short name>
        description: |
          <long description>
        service: <platform and service name>
        status: <status name>
        stride: <one or more of>
          - Spoofing
          - Tampering
          - Repudiation
          - Information disclosure
          - Denial of service
          - Elevation of privilege
        components:
          - <related platform/service components>
        mitigations:
          - <mitigation descriptions or references>
        references:
          - <relevant documentation>

The service threat model README.md files can be generated using the following command:

    $ ./scripts/generate_readmes.sh

### Fields

#### id

For threats the Id field is structured as follows:

    OCST-<platform_id>-<service_id>-<threat_id>

So if for example the Id is

    OCST-1.3.1

then the first 1 refers to the AWS platform, the 3 refers to the IAM service, and the second 1 refers to the threat number. In this case it is the first AWS IAM threat.

#### status

The status field is used to indicate the state of the threat. Some threats are simply a what-if that may in fact not be possible, whereas others have public attack tools/exploits. The following field values are used:

* Unconfirmed - The threat is a what-if and may not actually even be possible. Further research is required.
* Confirmed - The threat has been confirmed through research.
* Exploited - A known attack tool or exploit exists for the threat.


